feat: webapp + wallet sdk / wallet extension + tutorial (#21008)
AztecProtocol/aztec-packages: docs/docs-developers/docs/tutorials/js_tutorials/webapp/index.md

## What you'll learn

- Writing and compiling a Noir smart contract with private state
- Deploying and interacting with the contract from a TypeScript script
- Setting up a Vite + React project that runs Aztec's WASM modules in-browser
- Connecting to Aztec via an **embedded wallet** (local dev) or the **wallet SDK** (devnet)
- Sending **private transactions** and reading **private state**
- Paying transaction fees with the **SponsoredFPC** contract

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) v22 or later
- The Aztec CLI installed (`aztec` command available)
- A local Aztec network running (`aztec start --local-network`), **or** access to the Aztec devnet
- Basic familiarity with React and TypeScript

## Clone the example

The tutorial walks through a complete working example. Clone it first, then follow along:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/AztecProtocol/aztec-packages.git

> cd aztec-packages/docs/examples/webapp-tutorial

Reviewer: i added a comment elsewhere, but we should have readers checkout the tag of the monorepo that they are reading from.

yarn install
```

## Architecture

```text
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                Browser                       │
│                                              │

> │  ┌──────────┐   ┌──────┐   ┌─────────────┐ │

Reviewer: can be cleaner <img width="1083" height="573" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/956bcf71-4ac5-4426-86ea-6f8967eb27f6" />

                              │ Aztec Node  │
                              │ (local or   │
                              │  devnet)    │
                              └─────────────┘
```

**PXE** (Private eXecution Environment) runs in the browser as WASM. It handles private state, note discovery, and proof generation — your secrets never leave the browser.

## Tutorial sections

1. [The Contract](./01-the-contract.md) — understand the Pod Racing contract, compile it, deploy and interact via script
2. [Project Setup](./02-project-setup.md) — project structure overview, Vite config, environment
3. [Network & Wallet](./03-network-and-wallet.md) — connecting to Aztec, embedded wallet, wallet SDK
4. [Wallet SDK](./wallet-sdk/index.md) — discovery, encrypted channels, capabilities, and integration on both dApp and wallet sides
5. [Contract Interaction](./04-contract-interaction.md) — deploying and calling contracts from the webapp, game lobby and gameplay
6. [Transactions & Fees](./05-transactions-and-fees.md) — tx lifecycle, SponsoredFPC
7. [Putting It Together](./06-putting-it-together.md) — full App component, running the app

## Completed example

> The full working example including the contract source is available at [`docs/examples/webapp-tutorial/`](https://github.com/AztecProtocol/aztec-packages/tree/next/docs/examples/webapp-tutorial).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The full working example including the contract source is available at [`docs/examples/webapp-tutorial/`](https://github.com/AztecProtocol/aztec-packages/tree/#include_aztec_version/docs/examples/webapp-tutorial).
```
